# MusicPlayerAndroid

This App was created to get all music files with metadata in our Android devices.
This is a simple Android Music Player built on Android Studio using JAVA . It has a few features like play , pause ,next
and previous buttons .Currently We can play all songs stored in the local memory using this player.

Basically there are three main files in this project , the purposes of which are mentioned below :

1) MainActivity.java
    This is the first activity file which is executed when the app is opened . Many functions such as play, pause, next, prev and
    list is defined in this file . 
    
2) MainActivity2.java
    This file defines functions to access and display all the songs in stored in the memory. It is called from the first file,
    viz, MainActivity.java

3) newfile.java
    This file defines functions which are used to display and access all the songs stored in the secondary memory (SD Card).
  


<b>Requiremets</b>

Android 4.x - 5.x
User Permission for Internal Storage
User Permission for External Storage
First you need to set android permissions to your Androidmanifest.xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.STORAGE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />


<b>Features</b>

This App returns a Metadata of the file(in this case .mp3 file) which returns,
Id : Song id (generated by Java)
Album : Album name
Title : Song title
Cover : Cover song
Duration : Song duration (seconds)
Path : Absolute path in External / Internal storage

***CODE Snippet***


String path = songsList.get(d).get("songPath");
                mp.setDataSource(path);
                mp.prepare();

                TextView tt = (TextView)findViewById(R.id.name);
                String s = songsList.get(d).get("songTitle");

                tt.setText(s);
                File file = new File(songsList.get(d).get("songPath"));
                Uri uri = Uri.fromFile(file);
                MediaMetadataRetriever mmr = new MediaMetadataRetriever();
                mmr.setDataSource(songsList.get(d).get("songPath"));
                byte[] p=mmr.getEmbeddedPicture();
                ImageView aa = (ImageView)findViewById(R.id.imageView);
                if(p!=null)
                {
                    Bitmap bitmap=BitmapFactory.decodeByteArray(p,0,p.length);
                    aa.setImageBitmap(bitmap);
                }
                seekbar.setMax(mp.getDuration());
                if(t==1)
                {
                    mp.start();
                    mHandler.postDelayed(mRunnable, 0);
                    //playsong(d);
                }

***





<b>How to install?</b>

Clone this app from https://github.com/surya545/MusicPlayerAndroid.git



<b>How to use?</b>

Install Android Studio.
Open existing project i.e, the cloned project
Update Gradle and sync to open the project.


<b>How to Contribute?</b>

Clone, Open, Play, Change and Share.
Send pull requests.




<br/><br/>

<br/><br/>

<br/><br/>
<b>TODO</b>

Fix issues with Android 6.0
